So in this video we're going to learn how we can update data that's already been inserted into our tables.
So I've selected stuff from our products table and we have all seven entries down here.
But I want to update the coffee origin of our food coffee from India to Sri Lanka.
So to do that I need to use an update statement.
And here I've written out the syntax.
So we need to type update table name and then we need to set our column name.
So in this case coffee origin ecord to our new value.
So this will be equal to Sri Lanka and then we have a WHERE clause.
So look more at where clauses later on in the course as well.
But here it is going to say where a column is equal to a certain value.
So in our case we could use where coffee or a gin is equal to India or we could use where ID is equal
to seven so type or update statement for changing coffee or region of our food to coffee from India
to Sri Lanka.
So we need to type up day products so the products table and then we need to set our coffee origin column
equal to Sri Lanka
we need to say where
ID.
So the ID column is equal to seven.
So it's going to look for whether Id call them as equal to seven and it's going to change.
We're going to update the coffee gorging column equal to Sri Lanka.
So let's run this statement and that story from pulok.
Again you can see that the coffee chain change from India to Sri Lanka.
So that's how we do updates on data tables.
And by default.
In my school work bench you're only allowed to use the primary key column in the WHERE statement when
you're updating data.
And that's because automatically it sets safe updates to change.
We can skew our safe updates equal to zero.
So zero means Force 1 means true.
So here we're deactivating safe updates now.
And now we'll be able to update our data but we won't have to use the primary key column when we're
up we're using the WHERE clause.
So now I want to show you how you can update more than one column at a time.
So here we've just updated coffee origin.
But if we select stuff from products again I want to change the price and the coffee origin of our Americano.
So I want to change the price to free 4:46.
I don't want to change the coffee origin to Ethiopia so let's write up a statement for that.
So we have to update products again and we have to set price equal to the value Sifry point to five.
And then we can just type a comma and type your next column which is coffee origin and set that you
to Ethiopia.
That correctly and then we can say where name is the couture Americano.
So the name column is equal to Americano an American has to be in single quotes
and let's run up and select stuff from products and you can see our Americano here now has a price of
three point eighty five.
And the coffee origin of the Ethiopian sorry about dated two columns in one update statement.
And we can also update two rows at the same time.
So at the moment we've just looked a single rose Americano and filter but we can also update two rows
at the same time.
So here we have for our espresso macchiato we have a coffee or region of Brazil.
But I want to change all our Brazilian coffee to Colombian so let's write the update statement for that.
So we need to update products again.
We need to sell our coffee origin to Colombia.
Call Lumbee.
You can say where coffee origin
is equal to Brazil.
And let's run that statement and select style from politics again.
And you can see it update two values in coffee erging column.
So we had our espresso macchiato coffee Jane Brazeau and now they've both changed to Colombia.
So in this video we've learned how to update Singo values like India to Sri Lanka.
We've learned how we can update multiple columns for a single row.
And now we've learned that we can update multiple rows in a single update statement.
So that's it for the updates.
Thank you.